[Docs] Logging settings: add explanation of `appenders`, `loggers` and `root` (#111013)
elastic/kibana: docs/settings/logging-settings.asciidoc

<titleabbrev>Logging settings</titleabbrev>
++++

{kib} relies on three high-level entities to set the logging service: appenders, loggers, and root.

> - Appenders define where log messages are displayed (stdout or console) and stored (file on the disk), and their layout.

Reviewer: Logs aren't stored by default, they're only stored if a `file` type appender is configured for them. Users might interpret this sentence to mean they are stored by default, it's just where they're stored that they have control over. I'm not sure how to improve this though, maybe:
```suggestion
- Appenders define where log messages are displayed (stdout or console) and their layout (pattern or json). They also allow you to specify if you want the logs stored and, if so, where (file on the disk).
```

<titleabbrev>Logging settings</titleabbrev>
++++

> {kib} relies on three high-level entities to set the logging service: _appenders_, _loggers_ and _root_.

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing italics and adding serial comma:

```suggestion
{kib} relies on three high-level entities to set the logging service: appenders, loggers, and root.
```

> {kib} relies on three high-level entities to set the logging service: _appenders_, _loggers_ and _root_.

Reviewer 2: Consider putting the three items in a bulleted list instead of separate paragraphs:

- Appenders define....
- Loggers define ...
- Root is a special

To improve readability, consider removing the italics and parens.

Author: Done! Thank you!

> __Appenders__ define where log messages are displayed (e.g. stdout or console) and stored (eg. file on the disk), and their layout.

Reviewer 2: Eliminate the e.g., which is not good for internationalization. For example:

Appenders define where log messages are displayed (stdout or console), in which file they are stored, and their layout.

Author: Done! thanks for the tip!

> __Loggers__ define what logging settings (e.g. the `level` of verbosity and the `appenders` to use based on those defined earlier) should be applied to a particular _context_. Each log entry's _context_ provides information of the service or plugin emitting it (e.g. `server` or `plugins.myPlugin`) and any sub-parts of it (e.g. `metrics.ops` or `elasticsearch.query`).

Reviewer 2: Here is a suggestion.

```suggestion
__Loggers__ define what logging settings, such as the level of verbosity and the appenders,  to apply to a particular context. Each log entry context provides information about the service or plugin that emits it and any of its sub-parts, for example, `metrics.ops` or `elasticsearch.query`.
```

> __Root__ is a special _logger_ that applies to all the log entries in {kib}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Root is a logger that applies to all the log entries in {kib}.
```

> See the <<log-settings-examples, examples>> below for some common configuration use cases. To learn more about all the possible configuration values, go to {kibana-ref}/logging-service.html[{kib}'s Logging service].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to the <<log-settings-examples, examples>> for common configuration use cases. To learn more about possible configuration values, go to {kibana-ref}/logging-service.html[{kib}'s Logging service].
```

----

[[log-in-json-ECS-example]]
===== Log in JSON format

Log the default log format to JSON layout instead of pattern (the default).

> With `json` layout log messages will be formatted as JSON strings in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-reference.html[ECS format] that includes a timestamp, log level, logger, message text and any other metadata that may be associated with the log message itself

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With `json` layout, log messages will be formatted as JSON strings in https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-reference.html[ECS format] that includes a timestamp, log level, logger, message text and any other metadata that may be associated with the log message itself.
```

----

[[log-in-json-ECS-example]]

> ===== Log in json format

Reviewer 2: Also check other uses of json in this section to see if they should be JSON

```suggestion
===== Log in JSON format
```

Author: Applied the changes to the places where it's text (but not in code) :)

--

[[change-overall-log-level]]

> ===== Change overall log level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
===== Change overall log level
```
